---
layout: post
title:  "GMMIW Project 1"
date: 2016-08-07 00:22:01 -0700
categories: project
tags: team1
---


## Project 1: Stochastic modelling for hydro

### Mentor: Fabian Bastin, *University of Montreal*

### Description
The operation of a hydroelectric generation facility that supplies electrical
power must balance the demands for water flow into the generators with the
availability of water in the large reservoir behind a damn. The electrical power
demand can be predicted quite accurately, but the main uncertainty in the
operation is the source of the water inflows, especially regarding the seasons.
For instance, during Winter, there is practically no inflow of water to the
reservoir, but the electrical demands are quite high.  In the Spring, when the
snow melts, large water inflows occur, while the electrical demand becomes
smaller. Various questions arise in analysing this situation, and the project
will focus on a number of issues, including:

* the modelling of inflows, based on historical data, and the creation of
  scenario trees;
* the optimization of reservoirs management. This may include using the
  progressive hedging algorithm, a popular but challenging technique in
  stochastic programming;
* the numerical simulation of the system.

A key goal is to develop a better way to model the uncertainty for this process.
Some initial software models for the system are available, and the student will
be looking to create better, more realistic simulation.  Desired background for
students working in this project include:

* Stochastic processes and stochastic modeling
* Optimization
* Numerical methods

### More resources:
[https://www.cirrelt.ca/DocumentsTravail/CIRRELT-2012-35.pdf](https://www.cirrelt.ca/DocumentsTravail/CIRRELT-2012-35.pdf)
-
