---
layout: post
title:  "GMMIW Project 5"
date: 2016-08-07 00:22:05 -0700
categories: project
tags: team5
---
## Project 5: Modelling the performance of rechargeable Li-Ion batteries

### Mentor: Brian Wetton, University of British Columbia

### Description: 
Rechargeable batteries are now standard components in electronic devices and are becoming more widely used in electric vehicles. Lithium ion batteries are one of the most popular types for both of these applications. They have high energy density and a long shelf life, are cheap to construct, and are safe to store and operate (all in comparison to other battery types). In these batteries, energy is stored when Lithium ions enter a solid electrode of layered material. Basic information about Lithium ion batteries can be found, on Wikipedia and at http://batteryuniversity.com/

This project will explore the modelling of small scale Lithium ion batteries for electronic devices. Using experimental data on charging and discharging cycles, we will develop virtual battery simulation tools to predict performance in varying conditions and to develop optimal charging strategies. Models will begin with simple black box (system identification) and equivalent circuit models and can be extended to include more physics and chemistry. As time permits, we can consider using the simulation tools to investigate charging and operation of batteries with different characteristics arranged in parallel and series.

Students may measure battery performance themselves using simple electronic equipment, if time and resources permit. As a backup plan, the experimental data used to develop the models will be taken from the manufacturer's data and scientific literature.

Desired background for students working in this project include:

* Differential equations
* Numerical methods
