---
layout: post
title:  "GMMIW Project 3"
date: 2016-08-07 00:22:03 -0700
categories: project
tags: team3
---
## Project 3: Growth of nanoparticles for industrial production

### Mentor: Tim Myers, *Centre de Recerca Matemàtica, Barcelona*

### Description: 
Nanoparticles are small units of matter with dimensions in the range of 1 to 100 nanometers. They have recently become the focus of intense research due to their unique characteristics. Nanoparticles exhibit many advantageous size-dependent magnetic, electrical, chemical and optical properties, which are not observed at the macroscale. As these properties are extremely sensitive to the particle size, the ability to produce monodisperse particles that lie within a controlled size distribution is critical. In the context of nanoparticles, monodispersity typically refers to size distributions where the standard deviation is less than five percent. Applications that require uniform particles include light emitting diodes, solar energy systems, multi-terabit magnetic storage and biological imaging.

In this project we wish to develop a mathematical model for the growth of spherical nanocrystals from solution. Once the basic model is developed we will extend it to a number of particles and determine the factors controlling the size distribution, with the goal of producing particles of a similar size. We will then look for published experimental data and attempt to fit the model to such data.

Desired background for students working in this project include:
* Partial differential equations
* Numerical methods
* Some physics

