---
layout: post
title:  "GMMIW Project 6"
date: 2016-08-07 00:22:06 -0700
categories: project
tags: team6
---
## Project 6: Modelling and optimisation of traffic light signals

### Mentor: Chris Budd,  *University of Bath, UK*

### Description: 
Traffic flow through a city is an important problem for transport planners; traffic jams can have serious economic implications both for the individuals stuck in the jams and the businesses that lose time and revenue as a result. Traffic light signalling is a crucial part of maintaining a good traffic flow and robust algorithms are needed to determine the signal timings. As flow rates increase during peak times, poorly chosen timings will cause the breakdown of the flow, and hence create a traffic jam. Well chosen timings will allow higher flow rates and hence delay the breakdown of the flow, potentially avoiding a traffic jam altogether.

Although many junctions are equipped with traffic sensors in the form of inductance loops buried in the road, a large number of traffic lights are still operated on a fixed timing system. (The fixed times may change throughout the day.) To determine the timings, historical traffic flow data is used. Robust methods are needed to determine appropriate timings given uncertainties in the flow rates.
A further level of sophistication comes when sensor input is available to the traffic light signalling software. The idea is that with accurate arrival data, signal timings can be chosen optimally. Moreover, GPS data from buses and other vehicles on the road may be used to give forecasts of future arrivals.

Desired background for students working in this project include:

* Differential equations
* Numerical methods
* Perhaps some stochastic methods
