---
layout: post
title:  "GMMIW Project 4"
date: 2016-08-07 00:22:04 -0700
categories: project
tags: team4
---
## Project 4: This party is too big, folks! Setting room capacities for safety.

### Mentor: Nilima Nigam, *Simon Fraser University*

### Description: 
Most rooms for public gatherings will have signage about the maximum lawful capacity of people in the room. Similarly, elevators state a maximum number of people. In this project, the students’ task is to develop a mathematical model to determine the maximum lawful capacity for the Chan Shun Concert Hall in the Chan Centre for the Performing Arts at UBC. Similarly, the students will determine the maximum allowable number of people in the elevators leading to the Chan Centre.

An initial focus is to consider what factors may be important. Layout? Access to exits? Speeds of humans? Seating arrangements? Remember that the Chan Shun Concert Hall has several options for configuration. Would one want to change the maximum lawful capacity in these cases? How will these proposed answers in the project compare to the technical specifications for the venue? Any mathematical model needs to be explicit about any simplifying assumptions and scaling arguments used.

As a more sophisticated variant, suppose the VSO schedules a performance of music aimed at children under 18 months, who are accompanied by at least one adult each. Assume the seats in the Chan Shun Concert Hall can be moved, and that each child will be in a stroller. Determine the maximum capacity of the venue in this case.

With very high probability, if the results of this project determine the lawful capacity is lower than what is stated on the Chan Centre’s website, the students can expect their results to be challenged! The final report needs to include a short statement to the public, defending your model.

Desired background for students working in this project include:

* Discrete mathematics
* Statistics and/or stochastics
* Numerical modeling

